---
title: "Oracle Certified Associate - Java SE8 Programmer.<br/> Wait... what? isn't it old?"
share: false
comments: true
categories:
- blog
tags:
  - Java, Certificate, Oracle, Beginners, Introduction
---

Hey! <br/>
Few days ago I had an amazing opportunity to be on the <a href="https://devoxx.pl/">Devoxx Poland</a> conference in 
Cracow. I was so surprised how many charismatic, lovely and experienced people I met there! It was wonderful experience, 
not only because it provided opportunities for professional growth and presented trends in programming and IT, but also 
it opened my eyes on many things connected with soft skills and self-improvement. In general, it is a smart idea to check
topics of talks on conferences and meetings from time to time, even if we don't have a plan to go there. It sounds obvious, 
but I think that we really often forget about the simplest solutions.
Some older talks from previous years are available on YouTube, I highly recommend checking out some of them! <br/>

So what about title of this post, you might ask? Why I mentioned Devoxx at the beginning?
I attended a short talk by <a href="https://twitter.com/hannotify">Hanno Embregts</a>. 
He shared, that after 14 of coding he decided to pass his Java 11 certification. Surprisingly, he encountered new things 
along the way!<br/> Anyway, some time ago I had the same idea to purse this certificate, 
and this talk further motivated me to do it.
Why Java Certificate and why Java 8, it is soo old... at the moment when I am writing this post the newest LTS Java 
version is 17. <br/>  
So, it is time to explanation! My main reasons why:
* __Java 8 is still alive!__
we can still find it in many projects. It was significant release, which introduced important features. 
* __OCA Java SE8 Programmer is the last certificate divided into 2 levels__. After Java 8 we can find only certificates, 
which are at the professional level. Personally, I prefer the incremental approach of dividing things into smaller portions.
Less stress, more power after passed exam, more confidence.  
* __Java 8 serves as a foundation for learning newer versions of Java__, such as Java 11 or Java 17. 
By mastering the concepts and features introduced in Java 8, I will have a smoother transition to these newer versions, 
which usually offer additional benefits and improvements.

In the new posts you can expect walk-thru the certificate with me. 
I will try to share some examples, maybe one day it will be useful for you?<br/>
If you have any feedback or advices feel free to share with me!<br/>
XoXo,



